Publish composable subgraphs (#919)
graphprotocol/docs: website/src/pages/en/subgraphs/guides/subgraph-composition.mdx

---
title: Aggregate Data Using Subgraph Composition
sidebarTitle: 'Build a Composable Subgraph with Multiple Subgraphs'
---

Leverage Subgraph composition to speed up development time. Create a base Subgraph with essential data, then build additional Subgraphs on top of it.

> Optimize your Subgraph by merging data from 3 independent, source Subgraphs into a single composable Subgraph to enhance data aggregation.

Reviewer: here it says 3 and lates in #Benefits it states five, so probably best to leave the number out here, since the rest of the guide specifies

2. **Dependent Subgraph**: Uses the source Subgraph as a data source.

You can find these in the `source` and `dependent` directories.

- The **source Subgraph** is a basic event-tracking Subgraph that records events emitted by relevant contracts.
- The **dependent Subgraph** references the source Subgraph as a data source, using the entities from the source as triggers.

While the source Subgraph is a standard Subgraph, the dependent Subgraph uses the Subgraph composition feature.

## Prerequisites

### Source Subgraphs
- All Subgraphs need to be published with a **specVersion 1.3.0 or later** (Use the latest graph-cli version to be able to deploy composable Subgraphs)
- See notes here: https://github.com/graphprotocol/graph-node/releases/tag/v0.37.0
- Immutable entities only: All Subgraphs must have [immutable entities](https://thegraph.com/docs/en/subgraphs/best-practices/immutable-entities-bytes-as-ids/#immutable-entities ) when the Subgraph is deployed    
- Pruning can be used in the source Subgraphs, but only entities that are immutable can be composed on top of
- Source Subgraphs cannot use grafting on top of existing entities

> - Aggregated entities can be composed on, but the composed entities on them cannot also use aggregations directly

Reviewer: this can be more clear, maybe this: 
```suggestion
- Aggregated entities can be used in composition, but entities that are composed from them cannot performed additional aggregations directly.
```

### Composed Subgraphs
- You can only compose up to a **maximum of 5 source Subgraphs**
- Composed Subgraphs can only use **datasources from the same chain**
- **Nested composition is not yet supported**: Composing on top of another composed Subgraph isn’t allowed at this time

> - Aggregated entities can be composed on, but the composed entities on them cannot also use aggregations directly

Reviewer: - same suggestions as the above

Subgraph composition is a powerful feature for scaling, allowing you to:

- Reuse, mix, and combine existing data
- Streamline development and queries
- Use multiple data sources (up to five source Subgraphs)
- Speed up your Subgraph's syncing speed
- Handle errors and optimize the resync

## Architecture Overview

The setup for this example involves two Subgraphs:

1. **Source Subgraph**: Tracks event data as entities.
2. **Dependent Subgraph**: Uses the source Subgraph as a data source.

You can find these in the `source` and `dependent` directories.

- The **source Subgraph** is a basic event-tracking Subgraph that records events emitted by relevant contracts.
- The **dependent Subgraph** references the source Subgraph as a data source, using the entities from the source as triggers.

While the source Subgraph is a standard Subgraph, the dependent Subgraph uses the Subgraph composition feature.

## Prerequisites

### Source Subgraphs

- All Subgraphs need to be published with a **specVersion 1.3.0 or later** (Use the latest graph-cli version to be able to deploy composable Subgraphs)
- See notes here: https://github.com/graphprotocol/graph-node/releases/tag/v0.37.0

> - Immutable entities only: All Subgraphs must have [immutable entities](https://thegraph.com/docs/en/subgraphs/best-practices/immutable-entities-bytes-as-ids/#immutable-entities) when the Subgraph is deployed

Reviewer 2: This should be a relative URL.
